WADDLE - Wide Area Digital Distribution of Live Entertainment
Matt Zimmerman <mdz@csh.rit.edu>

WADDLE takes as input a digital audio stream, and transmits it over an IP
network to one (unicast) or many (multicast) receiver(s).  One instance of
the application is run in a "server" mode (-b), while the others run in
"client" (default) mode.  Currently, the "server" mode only works under
Linux, but should be easily portable to other Unices.  The client code
includes sound drivers for Linux (VOXware) and Win32 (DirectX/DirectSound).
There is no Win32 server, and I hope there never is.

The Linux client/server uses stdin/stdout for its audio source/sink.  If
stdin is anything but a sound device, the server assumes that you're playing
prerecorded input from a file, and will attempt microsecond-resolution
sleeps to simulate a "live" broadcast (taking into account I/O delays).
This may not be exactly precise, and with large files and small audio buffers
(on the receiving end(s)), some problems may be experienced.

The Win32 client uses whatever default sound device is provided by
the DirectSound interface.  If you have more than one, figure it out.
I didn't have a system suitable for testing with multiple devices.

The following directories contain interesting things:

bin/{linux,win32}	Precompiled binaries for Linux and Win32
ms/			DirectX 5 and Winsock 2 (required for Win32 support)

"Stereo multiplexing mode" splits the left and right channels of stereo
input into two streams, sending them (presumably) to two different hosts
or multicast groups.

This was written in a mad rush before Illumination Madness in the fall of
1997 during my tour of duty at Computer Science House at RIT in Rochester, NY.
The source is not copywritten in any form, but proper credit (or blame)
is appreciated if you use or modify it.

Usage:
waddle [options] <left ip address> [right ip address]
Options:
-s Enables stereo mode (default: mono)
-r <arg> Sets sampling rate in Hz (default: 8000Hz)
-q Enables high-quality mode with 16-bit samples (default: 8-bit)
-b Enables broadcast (sender) mode

Specify two IP addresses on sender for stereo multiplexing mode
Use sound device as stdin/stdout as appropriate

Future CSH members: I'll probably be reading my CSH mail for years to come, so
if you come upon this program and desire insight into basic network
programming, multicast, etc., feel free to send me mail.

Documentation written 09/14/1998, many months after completion of development
